you
[Music]
in the 1980s and 90s all kinds of
fantastic beans were moving in with
sitcom families there was the robotic
girl and small wonder a friendly Bigfoot
on Harry and the Hendersons and of
course a certain fairy alien from the
planet melmac named Gordon Shumway this
was not a new concept two decades
earlier
Jack Georgia produced two similar
comedies my favorite Martian and my
living doll Alf however took the alien
and family concept to a new territory
with its use of puppetry of creator
operator and voice actor Paul Fusco
brought the brown creature to life for
four seasons from 1986 to 1990 the
lovable and sarcastic alien life-form
lived with a Tana family on NBC the show
clicked with millions of viewers
spawning shelves full of merchandise a
cartoon spin-off a TV movie and comic
books as always you are watching how
they changed and here are some things
you might not know about alpha Gordon
Shumway is animation nicknamed Alf an
acronym for alien life form by Willa
Tana in the pilot episode Alf was born
on the 28th of October 1756 on the lower
east side of the planet melmac melmac
was located six parsecs past the hydras
in Taurus supercluster and had a green
sky blue grass and a purple Sun the
commonly used currency is a vernik named
after producer sandy Vernick which is
equal to ten American dollars lent
gravel and foam arrest pressures on mal
Mac as gold is on earth whereas God and
platinum are so common that they're used
in place of porcelain to make toilets
and sinks as seen in season 1 episode
baby you can drive my car where alph
sells the gold and platinum plumbing in
his shape to buy a Ferrari fill in elves
body is covered with fur and he is a
rippled snout facial moles
ates Thomas his heart if he only has one
is apparently located in his right ear
he likes to burp and eat cats and can
whistle without opening his mouth it's
susceptible to bouts of extremely loud
hiccups which can only be cured by
eating spinach which he hates he had a
best friend on his home planet named
moronic he has friends named skip Rick's
Tala and girlfriend named Rhonda all of
whom also escaped the explosion he
attended high school for 122 years and
was Captain of a Brya baseball team a
game played on ice using seafood as a
bull Alf is troublesome sarcastic
inconsiderate slovenly and cynical and
sometimes puts himself at the risk of
being discovered while perpetrating some
of his often unintentional pranks
however if things have gone too far he
does as much as possible to make up for
his mistakes generally with positive
results in the episode it's not easy
being green he tries to help Brian too
afraid to perform to gain confidence
during school show by giving him a lucky
tooth that Alf claims helped him to be a
star of the stage on mal Mack on another
occasion in the episode I've got a new
attitude he helps Dorothy deal with
Spock his death and move on to accept
Wizards friendship in the episode take a
look at me now after neighbor Raquel Ark
Manette claims to see Alf and is
ridiculed on a call-in television show
Alf calls into the show to defend her
Alf comes from a large family and has at
least 30 known relatives cousins
prettyboy Shumway and blinky two uncles
tinkling goo Bren Michelle Wie a brother
Curtis parents Bob and Flo shall we and
aunts Boober Wagner and Eugene in a
commercial for the Anna fowl the trend
during Super Bowl 45 on the 6th of
February 2011 it was confirmed that Alf
is a Carolina Panthers fan even though
the team did not exist during elfs
original Ron
almost every episode is named after a
popular son say for a few outliers like
the pilot and elfs special Christmas the
102 episodes were largely named after
pop songs there were references to
everyone from the Beatles when I'm 64 to
Duran Duran hungry like the wolf
original cast members from Gilligan's
Island reprised their characters in an
episode the last time Alan Hale jr.
appeared as skipper Jonas crumby on
network television was not a Gilligan's
Island reunion rather it was in an early
second season episode of Alf
the alien becomes a big fan of the
classic comedy of castaways and turns
the Tana backyard into a tropical oasis
the trends that the cast of Gilligan's
Island shows up and actors Hale Bob
Denver Don wells and Russell Johnson all
returns to reprise their iconic cruise
it could take a full day to fill one
30-minute episode while the final
product was light-hearted fun the
creation process was no picnic due to
the inherent difficulties in film and
scenes with a puppet with Fusco and
another puppeteer working for fit and
ran elevated stage through trapdoors
creating an episode could be cruelly
work one Hollywood Reporter article in
1990 claimed the process could last 12
hours while Anja Dean who played Kate
Tanner told People magazine in 2006 that
a 30-minute show took 2025 hours to
shoot by the way that's a long day
that would explain why laugh track was
utilized in lieu of a live audience Alf
drank beer in the first season the elf
character was 285 years old and
certainly entitled to pop open a bottle
of suds on earth however in reality he
was a fuzzy puppet ignored by children
the network convinced fasco to eliminate
the alcohol consumption so is not to
make Alf a bad road model you won't see
brewski in later episodes some elements
were censored due to the adverse effect
on children as mentioned above Alf is a
grown adult male mission akin to Oscar
Madison with Don Rickles says sense of
humor he famously enjoyed the taste of
cats and often spoke of his culinary
habit early on in the series this cat
chomping talk mostly faded away with his
beer consumption in the episode try to
remember
elf creates a Jacuzzi in the bathtub
with an electric mixer from the kitchen
a child recreated this scenario and
nearly died from the electric shock
the scene was refilmed with a manual egg
pizza which is what you see in reruns
Alf appeared on Matlock blossom and Love
Boat the next wave Shumway was a
sensation away from his own program - he
pops up in the 1987 Matlock episode the
network and took a cruise with Love Boat
the next wave in transits of a lifetime
1999 Burger King released Alf records
with its kids meals in 1988 the
fast-food chain gave away a series of
food cardboard record singles with its
kids nails featuring the songs malm
crock malm girls cooking with Alf and
take me out to the ballgame Alf released
an album in Germany - he was a regular
David Hasselhoff the character dropped
his full length yet xing-ke now I sing
in 1991 it featured songs in German such
as house minam's in and NIMS life names
Locker which he would recognize as
translated versions of pump up the jam
and don't worry be happy Ben Stiller
starred in a dark drama film about an
off writer Ben Stiller showed off his
serious side in the 1998 drug addiction
my permanent midnight which was based on
the life of Alf writer Jerry Stahl in
the movie elf is replaced with the quite
similar mr. chompers now hosted a talk
show with Ed McMahon as his sidekick in
2004 the cable network TV Land launched
a talk show with Alf as the host former
Carson Seidman McMahon was third he's
right and the coach the alien was no
Johnny unfortunately and else he'd talk
show lasted seven episodes the show's
finale was crafted as cliffhanger to
entice the network to bring the show
back for a new season the ruse didn't
work and the show was indeed cancelled
before it could resolve its ending and
that's all for now don't forget to leave
a like subscribe and share this video
with fans take care